Tell me your full name. Tell me when you were born,
where you were born,
what you did as a young man, what you were
interested in. Tell me a little bit about your
folks, what kind of influence they had on you,
stuff like that. Today is the 31st of July, 1997.
We're in San Antonio, Texas. Good. So if you could
just begin. With that, I appreciate it. I'll
interrupt you from time to time with questions or
clarifications. My name is Frank Adair Camp.
Would you spell Adair? Adair is A-D-A-I-R,
which was my mother's maiden name. I was born
December the 21st of 1920 in a very small town up in
north central Texas named Blum, B-L-U-M. My
mother and father were ranchers right at the edge
of town up on High Rocky Hill. What's Blum near?
Blum is near the county seat of, it's in Hill County
and the county seat is Hillsboro. It's closer to
Cleburne actually than it is to Hillsboro. And a
lot of people now can locate it because it's also on
the edge of Lake Whitney. Uh-huh. And so people
come there from Dallas and Fort Worth for fishing.
My mother died when I was four years old. Suddenly,
she'd had mastoiditis and she got pneumonia and
died on December 24th, buried on Christmas Day. My
father never remarried.
He had one old mate's sister who came a couple of
times in my growing up and lived with us. And other
cousins came. The purpose of her coming primarily
was because she lived out in the country where
there was only a country school. And these other
two cousins had gone as far as they could go there
and they needed to come into town. and have a better
school so she came to live with us. But in the summer
times I was living with grandparents mostly.
Where did your grandparents live? They lived in
the same area of Blum out in the country there. My
father's folks actually lived in a sandy land area
there near Blanton really. which was another just
a wide place in the road. My mother's people had a
ranch right on the upper edges of the river that
later became Lake Whitney.
Unfortunately, when my mother died, I went to live
with her parents, and in April after my mother
died, my grandmother died. So, my mother had one
brother who had been in the Navy in World War I. He
came home at the end of the war and decided to help
his father with the ranch there. He never married,
but I was always relatively close to him. and his
father, and they lived out there on the ranch by
themselves. And I spent some time with them in the
summer times.
Blum is a very small town. There was only about 200
people in the town. There were as many people in the
school as there was in the town because it had a bus
system that drew from around that whole area
there. although my graduating class from high
school had a total of 14 of them, seven boys and
seven girls. And people have asked me sometimes,
how come that you went to A&M? Well, at that time,
this was back, I graduated in 1938, right in the
heart of the Depression. People had very little
money, very few people went to college. I had a
small, inheritance from my mother that I used and
why I chose A&M I really don't know except that I
remember one time when I was about a sophomore or
junior in high school that there was some evening
occasion going on and there was a visit at this
party so to speak of some seniors from A&M. And I was
just intrigued by them. So I wrote and got a catalog
and decided that's where I'd like to go. The thing
that made it most inviting was that you could go
there so cheaply because you were wearing
uniforms which were partly furnished. The most
that I paid, for example, for a room and board my
freshman year was $27 a month. The amount that they
charged the board was based on their actual dining
hall expenses the month before. And so I could
attend there and
not have to too much expense. So did you enter A&M in
38? I entered A&M in 38. So you were a class of 42. 42.
And of course in December 41 was when the Pearl
Harbor plane came. I went home at Christmas time
and In 41? In 41 and went to see my draft board.
Because A&M at that time had a requirement that you
had to stay at school my memory says April 15th it
may have been May 1st if you were there that long
they would give you your degree and so I went to the
draft board and asked them if I would be able to stay
there and they laughed at me and said you're crazy
you're number 8 in the county and you'll be gone the
first month and so I believed them Actually, I
didn't get drafted until the first week of July, as
it turned out. So you didn't go back to school then?
You stayed at home? I stayed at school, but I didn't
register for the second semester. Oh. But the
government was paying for some special courses on
campus. And so even though I didn't want to lose my
money, I didn't mind letting the government pay
for something for me. And I could stay on campus
with my friends and this sort of thing until I got
called. So July of 41, you got drafted? July of 41.
No, 42. 42, I got drafted. That's right. And I was
working. One of the courses that I took at this A&M
thing was a course called Testing and Inspection
of Engineering Materials. They still teach that.
Of which I had absolutely no background for. I know
nothing, just a friend who approved me so I could
get in it. But anyway, when I got through it, an
Aggie who had a big construction company up in
Dallas was hiring all of us to help build army
camps. So I went from A&M, when I finished that
course, up to Gainesville, north of Fort Worth and
Dallas, up there near the Oklahoma border, and
helped them build an army camp. And on the weekend
of 4th of July, I came home and found my draft notice
there. And so I went in the next morning to Dallas
and went to the Naval recruiting office and they
asked me, what do you want to do in the Navy? I said, I
just want in the Navy. Now, why did you choose the
Navy? Was that because of this uncle? This uncle of
yours? This uncle of mine, he had a very
interesting experience during World War I, loved
the Navy and So I had listened to him in my
childhood, and just decided that's what I wanted
to do. I didn't want to go in the Army, because I'd
heard all kinds of tales about Army life, too. So I
went into the recruiting office, told them I
wanted to join the Navy, and they wanted to know
what I wanted to do. And I said, I just want to join
the Navy. But they noticed that I was working on a
construction camp, so they said, we'll put you in
the Seabees. That's construction battalions.
Well, actually, I knew nothing about
construction.
But anyway, I was sent. That never stopped the
military. No, it never stopped them. I rode from
Dallas
to Norfolk, Virginia on a train, open air. When I
say that, all the windows were open. We all looked
like black people when we got there because of the
smoke. The soot. The soot coming in. Got in on a
Wednesday. checked in to the base, and they very
quickly made assignments for the rest of the week.
And I got assigned to the gate duty on Sunday, which
I was not very happy about, because that was the one
day we had a little off and a little freedom.
Actually, it turned out to be very lucky in that
during the morning, the officer that was in charge
detail, asked if anyone could type. Well, I was the
only one that could. Those other construction
people, they could hardly do anything besides
doing their job. Anyway, after I helped him with
his reports and everything, later on in the day, he
said, Camp, I just got a notice down that they want
people to come up in the morning me to send some
people up to strike for yeoman and he said I don't
know anything about a yeoman except I know he types
and said you can type, you're heading my detail to
go up there. So I went up there and was interviewed
by a
petty officer, chief petty officer. He kept
asking me questions and finally he said you're
really overqualified for the job that I had. He
said, I just was looking for somebody to kind of be a
messenger for the time being. And he said, I'm
going to send you over for another interview. So he
sent me over to another building. And I ended up
being interviewed by the executive officer of the
base. And he talked to me for a little while. And he
said, where are you now? And I said, well, I'm in
boot camp. And he said, well, as of in the morning,
you're in my office. So he said, You didn't have to
go to boot? I did not go to boot. I can't believe
this. That's what people do. And I went to work for
him, and we had a very good relationship. One day he
called me, and he said, Why haven't you applied for
midshipman school? I said, You've got all the
qualifications for officer training. And I said,
Well, I just haven't. I said, I'm happy with doing
what I'm doing. I'm doing my job. He said, nah. He
said, I want your application on my desk this week.
So I went over, got my physical, and turned it in to
him. And thinking, because I'd been actually
helping with those applications, it takes about
six months before anything happens. So I thought,
by that time, I'll probably be ready for a change.
So he took it to Washington. I had orders for the
month it was over. And I went to Ben Shipman School
in Chicago. Oh, the Naval Station. No. Downtown
Chicago at the medical school, which they had
taken over part of those buildings. And it was
right next to a big armory. It would have been an
army. Or were they trained there for, I guess, like
the guard or something like that. They had that,
and they took over where I lived, had been a woman's
athletic club, high-rise athletic club. And then
they had the dormitories also that medical
students had lived in. So they took over that
facility. Well, the nice thing about it was that we
were the only officer-type military in the
downtown Chicago area. So when I checked in on
Sunday, when I arrived there, after I'd completed
all their forms and got my room assignment and all
this, they said, there's a lady out at the table on
the veranda out there that would like to talk to you
right there. Well, this was the social director of
the Chicago Yacht Club. And she was inviting all of
us, the incoming class, to come to a tea that
afternoon to meet her girls. She had all these
debutantes that were parents who were members of
the Chicago Yacht Club there. And in order to have
nice escorts for them, she depended on the
midshipman school people. So we did that. We all
met. nice young ladies who were looking for a good
time and whose father had plenty of money to help us
have a good time and on Saturday morning we had a
review and when that was over we were free for the
weekend. The girl that I got to know whose father
was a professor out at Northwestern furnished me a
car, furnished me money, to entertain his
daughter. So the war was a trial. The war was a
trial. It really was. I graduated from there at
Christmas time. This was in 42 then? No, this was in
43, I believe. So you were there... I went there...
Actually, it took a little bit longer for me before
I left for going there. I was... I was a yeoman first
in Norfolk, and then after a few months they moved
us up to Williamsburg, Virginia. And I was up there
for several months before I actually went in. I'd
been there probably six months or so before. So it
was, I went to midshipman school in September of 43
and graduated in December. Oh, so it was three or
four months. Well, I thought my luck had run out
because 90, 7% of our midshipmen class were
assigned to a small craft in the Navy with the great
majority of those being sent to the Pacific area.
But I lucked out again. I got an assignment. I was in
the LCTs, which is landing craft tanks, which is a
small thing. It can carry three tanks on its deck,
and it's kind of like a floating bathtub. But I went
to New Orleans to pick it up and to get my crew and
they put me on top of a larger landing craft called
an LSD. We got outfitted, went back to Norfolk,
picked up some stuff there and then started our 30
day crossing of the Atlantic. Supposedly to go to
Italy to do some work on the beachheads there in
Italy. Now you were incident at this point?
Incident at this point. What was your duty aboard
the LST? Well, I wasn't supposed to have any duty
aboard the LST but the captain of the LST made you do
everything he wanted you to do. He stood all the
watches and did everything just like a regular
officer did. Anyway, we got to North Africa. They
launched us off, put the That's LST at a list, and
they had us on a special box. They knocked those
blocks out, and we slid off into the water. And I was
supposed to leave the next morning for the Anzio
beachhead to relieve some ships that were taking a
beating up there. About 10 o'clock that night,
officers came aboard and said, Camp, you have new
orders. we're sending you to England. We're gonna
tow you back to Algiers, which has a crane big
enough to lift you back on the LSD. And then, so I
took another 30-day little thing, because they
just go way out into the Atlantic and back to
Mississippi. The dangers. Incidentally, on the
way over, Just as we passed, or if we were nearing
Gibraltar, we were attacked by JU-88s. And we
ended up, because I had a captain on that LST that
was a pretty smart old guy. And he got away from all
the other ships and was out by himself, so to speak.
And we brought a JU-88 down. He kind of grazed our
deck and that. brought him down, and we got a silver
star. That's really the most dangerous part of the
war for me. And then when we got to England, we
landed in Ireland, because we had to go to another
place that had a crane big enough to lift me off
again. So I got off actually in Cardiff, Wales,
right across from Ireland, and then sailed around
the
base, by the time we got there, they had all of the
assignments already made for D-Day. So they had us
in reserve. And I got an assignment that could not
be, I could not land on the beach until it was
secured. So I didn't go in until D plus six. And I had
three tanks that I took in. Then after I took those
tanks in on D plus six, my assignment was to unload
ammunition. And I would go alongside of these
ships and they would put 100 tons of ammunition on
my deck. And then when the tide. So your LCT was like
a lighter going back and forth. We had those big
tides on that beach there. We'd go in on the beach at
high tide and anchor. The tide would go out and then
we'd drop our bow down and they'd just come on there
with trucks and take everything off. Well that was
all right until, of course the first night or two it
wasn't very nice because you had aircraft coming
over and attacking the beach every night. But if
you ever got hit, You didn't have to worry because
that was the end. Anyway, in July, first part of
July, we had a terrible storm on the beach. And if
the Germans had really known how bad off we were,
they could have wiped us out because we got down to
the fact that there was less after that storm. all
got tore up there. Mulberries were all busted up.
Oh, everything was busted up. They had at one time
less than 12 hours of gasoline that they could
deliver. They had to beach ships that had
gasoline, these five gallon things of gasoline on
them. They'd beach those and take it off that way.
And so I worked on that beach until that storm, but I
had gotten pretty badly torn up, so they towed me
back to England and put me in repair.
I stayed there for, I guess, about six weeks, and
then went back to the beach. But I wasn't on the
beach for about less than one month until somebody
came on board and said, Well, you've got a new
assignment. I said, I do. He said, yes, you're the
new flotilla officer for the
group. He said, you're going back to England. So I
went back to England and lived in a nice home that we
had for our headquarters. Where was this? It was in
Salkham. It's in southern England, close to
Plymouth. Oh, OK. And we had a beautiful
headquarters there. And so we stayed there until
the war was over. When the war in Europe was over, my
commanding officer asked four of us that had been
on his staff if we would like to go back with him and
be on a new staff, probably in the Pacific. And we
said yes, we'd like to. So we all went back to
Norfolk. and went out to a little base called Camp
Bradford. Now, did you fly back or did you take a
ship back? Oh, we took a ship back. The old George
Washington. Oh, the old liner, yeah. Yeah. Worst
ride in the world. Not only that, but it had been a
hospital ship, and the beds were just metal things
with a little pad on it, so it was like sleeping. We
came home that way.
When we got to New York, when the ship got to New
York, when we got out of the narrows, they came
aboard to give us assignments
because we would have to stay in New York for a week
or so until they decided where they were going to
send us and this sort of thing. So the four of us were
standing on the deck. This wave came up and said,
where would you all like to stay in New York? What
hotel? And thinking that we were being a little
smart ass, we said, the Hilton. Well, it was the
Waldorf then. And she said, OK. So she gave us a
suite at the Waldorf.
Of course, the Warduff was not like it is today. It
wasn't air conditioned. It had ceiling fans. But
it was nice. It was beautiful. And I laugh and say
that the quality of the Warduff was really shown
when I left there to go home. I threw an old pair of
shoes they were practically had holes in the
bottom of them in the trash can. When I got home,
they had mailed them home to me.
Of course, leather was then very hard to get. They
thought that I shouldn't throw them away, I guess.
Anyway, we were stationed there in Camp Bradford
waiting on an assignment and had nothing to do. So
the four of us played bridge from 8 o'clock in the
morning to 5 o'clock in the afternoon when we could
leave the base.
Then the war in Japan was over. We still hadn't been
assigned out there. So what they were doing, we
were all four of us were single. And they- Now you'd
been promoted though. You were- Oh yeah, I was- You
were a lieutenant probably or- I was either a JG or a
lieutenant. I can't remember which. I think I was
just a JG.
We all got assignments to going out to the Pacific,
except that they all went out to ships in the
Pacific to relieve officers who had enough points
to come home. And so they would bring the ship back,
you see. Where did I go? I went to Long Beach,
California. I became what was called a passenger
transportation officer. In other words, I was
arranging troop trains for people who, as they'd
get to the States, to go back to bases for
separation. And so that was my assignment for four
years. Actually, ships quit coming in to
the Los Angeles harbor. San Pedro. Yeah, San Pedro
there. And we were getting almost nothing. So I'd
go to the office and check my dispatches and take
care of what little there was, and I was free the
rest of the day. Now, about this time, you must have
made a decision that maybe you wanted to stay in the
Navy a little longer. Well, lots of people were
doing this and were staying, but I was looking at it
that, hell, that in a few months there wouldn't be
any Navy like we have now. Right. And that the
people from out of... Annapolis would get all the
plum officer assignments. I didn't think there
was much future in the Navy. So I planned
immediately to come back to A&M and go to school and
finish my degree. So although I could have gotten
out in about April, I stayed until August. Stay on
Navy pay. This is August of 46. Yeah. And then I came
home and started school in September. And stayed,
actually, I finished up my degree and started my
master's there. And jobs, though, were just
absolutely impossible to get almost at that time.
I went out in West Texas to Breckenridge to visit a
cousin of mine who had lived with us when I was a
child. We were almost like brothers and sisters
rather than cousins. And she had been a home
economics teacher out there for quite a long time.
And I went out there during actually my spring
break, I think. At lunchtime, the superintendent
came over and sat down at the table and got to
talking, and he wanted to know what I was doing. And
I told him, I said, well, I'm finishing up some work
down at A&M, and I don't know what I'm going to do.
I'm looking for a job. He said, come in and talk to
me. So I went in and talked to him, and he offered me a
job teaching in an elementary school. So I went out
there. taught for two years and then became
principal of this elementary school and stayed
there another two years. Well, there wasn't any
Navy anywhere close. So I hadn't really done
anything. You weren't separated. We were just
released to inactive duty is what we were doing.
Out of a clear blue sky, about Christmas time of 50,
I got a a letter from the Commandant of the 8th Naval
District. And he said, we're inviting all
officers in the district who have had prior
personnel experience to come in for a two-week
conference to work on a special project. Would you
be interested in doing that? If so, let us know. So I
wrote him back and said, yes, I'd be glad to have
some Navy pay as compared to teaching pay and Lynn
and I were planning to get married that year in
March and this conference was going to be about the
same time so we decided well hey we'll send our
wedding and get married and then go to New Orleans
for the conference and I'll attend that in the
daytime and we can then have fun well it that was
what we did and It turned out that they kept wanting
me to come back down there because we wrote the
manual that set up mobilization stations in case
there was a general mobilization. As a result of
it, we were also in a special status so that they
couldn't draft us, and that's why I missed the
Korean War.
We, they wanted us to come back and revise the
manual and this sort of thing every year. I'd been
doing this for several years and realized that I
had about 10 or 11 years that were good quality
years as far as qualifying for retirement was
concerned. And I thought, maybe I better get
serious about this. So I talked to them down there
and they said, why don't you let us put you in a pay
status in San Antonio? So they assigned me to a unit
here, and I'd go down for about two weeks. I went
weekly drill, you know, and everything, and then
take two weeks every summer, which I would do in New
Orleans, until the Navy got a little picky because
I wasn't going to sea, getting any sea duty. So I
reached the point where I had to go to sea every
other year, and I'd go to New Orleans every other
year. But it became, I developed a lot of good
friends. What would you do in your sea duty every
other year? I mean, was that two weeks again? Yes,
two weeks. You'd go to sea. I went one year on an
aircraft carrier out of San Diego. I most often
went on a tin can or destroyer out of New Orleans.
And one year I went. So this wasn't a two-week
cruise, was it? Yeah. Oh, they just go out two weeks
and then come back? Yeah, it was a training cruise,
strictly. Oh. Is this all reserve officers? All
reserve people, officers and enlisted. They'd be
both on board. Usually they'd have these training
ships that would do this, and so half of the crew
would be regular and half of it would be reserve.
The captain was a regular Navy officer? Oh, yeah.
Was his XO a regular Navy officer? Oh, yeah. All the
top brass were regular Navy officers. Sometimes
you'd have assignments working with them, but it
was strictly an observation type thing. For
instance, we went on that carrier out of San Diego,
and that was training pilots who had not been, had
duty landing on board a carrier. So we worked 24
hours a day. It was night and day. You were only on
duty half the time. But it was a very interesting
experience. When did you do that in San Diego? Was
that in the late 50s, early 60s? Probably the late
50s or early 60s, something like that. That would
have been interesting. Yeah. I went to
Charleston, South Carolina one time. But all the
assignments were interesting. Like one time, I
went out of New Orleans and I had been late getting
on board, so I got the worst officer quarters, the
last one left, which was right up in the bow. And
before we got out of the river, we got a radio
message to prepare for heavy seas when you hit the
Gulf. Well, I mean, that was the most miserable
night of my Navy career, I think. The seas were so
heavy. I was up in that bow and it was going like this
and like this at the same time. I couldn't stay in
that bunk. I finally moved up to the lounge and just
slept on the couch up there. Well, we went like to
one time to Cuba, one time to Mobile, and all around
that area. Usually we were a part of some special
training assignment where we had duties on board
that ship and some exercise. They had all kinds of
training exercises they would do in the
summertime in order to get training to reserve. So
I enjoyed every minute of it. And finally, I got to
the point where I was up to a full commander. And
there
were very few of us assignments in the reserve
center here that would allow officers in that rank
to be in those assignments. And I was a hold of the
position and a lot of younger officers couldn't
get promoted because of that. And so I finally,
after I had about 24 years of active duty time, it
was counting for retirement, I just went ahead and
retired and let some of those younger officers. If
I'd stayed one more year, Hindsight's always
better than foresight. I would have probably made
one more promotion, which was a biggie. Yeah, the
captain. Yeah. But I didn't. And at the time, I
didn't think that he was so important. But I didn't
realize that
pay promotions were going to continue to go up and
up. And so my reserve retirement has become more
and more important as I've gotten older,
especially in San Antonio that is such a military
town, but we've got such excellent medical
facilities as well as the commissary and all this
PX and all this sort of thing. So
I really look back with a lot of pride on the days
that I was in the Yeah, I can understand that. Now,
did you continue to teach? No, after we got married
the next summer. Because even at, I was an
unmarried principal. I was getting credit for
four years of military, active military service.
And I was still, my take-home pay was less than $300
a month.
And so when we got married, and I was 30 years old by
that time, and we wanted to have some family. We
knew we weren't going to be able to fool around too
many years. So the first summer after we got
married in March, we went to Houston looking for a
job. And I had a cousin who got me to apply with
General Mills for a job.
It was a good interview and everything, but they
had no openings at the time. So I got back to school
and got started in about the middle of September.
They called me and said, we've got an opening in San
Antonio. Would you be interested in going to San
Antonio? And I said, well, I don't know. I've never
been to San Antonio, but been through it once, but
that's all. I said, I've just started A school
year? Well, why don't you come down and look at it?
Well, I came down here and they made me an offer of a
job here. And I went back then, went into the
superintendent's office and told him what had
happened. And he said, you know that I can't pay you
that kind of money. And he said, I don't think you
should turn it down. He said, I'll find somebody to
take your place. He said, go on and accept it. So we
came down here sometime in October and went to work
for General Mills. Well, it turned out that it was a
bad choice only because that all the, my territory
ran all the way from San Antonio out to Sanderson.
And up through the hill country. In the city of San
Antonio itself, I had nothing. So you were on the
road all the time. All the road. So I was on the road
at least three weeks out of four. And the first year
that you're married, that was not very happening.
Well, in December, I fell on an icy sidewalk and
broke a leg. And it was the kind of break that they
couldn't put a cast on. We were living in a second
floor apartment. It didn't even have a shower in
it. It had a tub in it. Well, that was the most
miserable six weeks I had. But I spent them reading
one ads and everything. And so by the time that my
six weeks was up, I had accepted another job. But I
continued in the Navy.
So you stayed in the San Antonio area. I stayed in
the San Antonio area. That was so you could keep the
reserve. Well, it was. And the other thing was that
when I'd been out in West Texas, I'd had lots of
problems with silence trouble. And I had almost
nothing here in San Antonio. Oh, indeed. So I was
very anxious to stay here. And so we stayed here all
these years as a result of that. The first house
that we lived in here, we stayed in it 35 years,
simply because after my wife decided to teach,
she's one of these people who is not a morning
person, and she liked being five minutes from
school. And so we didn't move for a long time. About
the time that I retired from, I worked the last 25
years before I retired was with Mutual of New York.
And after I retired from them, I built this house,
which was the first thing, my first project. And
then I did some substitute teaching at Hersk High
School for a few years, and then I got tired of that.
Now I'm to the point of where I just try to have
enough money to do as much traveling as possible.
That's good. Where have you been traveling? Well,
if you look at that map up there, you'll see we've
pretty well, we've been to South America twice.
We've been to Europe probably six or seven times.
Oh, the buttons are places you've been? Yeah. Oh,
you've done a good job then. We've been to
Australia and New Zealand. We've been down to
Singapore and to Hong Kong and Manila and Java. in
that area. We haven't done much as far as Africa is
concerned. We haven't been. Lynn went over one
year and kind of went into one little place in
Africa, but that's about the extent of it outside
of the two places that I got into when I was there in
that short period of time in the war. We're going
back in October this year We're flying to Paris,
gonna be there for a week, and then we're gonna take
a train over into Munich, because Germany is the
cheaper place to rent a car in Europe. And we'll
pick up a car there. Our favorite place in Europe is
a little village up on the side of the mountain
above Innsbruck called Muters. And we're going to
spend a couple of days there. And then try to make,
neither of us have been into Italy. And we're going
to go as far south as Rome. We'll hit Venice, and
Florence, and Lake Como area, and down to Rome.
Sounds like a fun trip. So I believe two couples of
us are going.
Let me turn this off.